                  The Catharon Open Source LICENSE
                    ----------------------------

                            2000-Jul-04

          Copyright (C) 2000 by Catharon Productions, Inc.



Introduction
============

  This  license  applies to  source  files  distributed by  Catharon
  Productions,  Inc.  in  several  archive packages.   This  license
  applies  to all files  found in  such packages  which do  not fall
  under their own explicit license.

  This  license   was  inspired  by  the  BSD,   Artistic,  and  IJG
  (Independent JPEG  Group) licenses, which  all encourage inclusion
  and  use of  free  software in  commercial  and freeware  products
  alike.  As a consequence, its main points are that:

    o We  don't promise that  this software works.  However,  we are
      interested in any kind of bug reports. (`as is' distribution)

    o You can  use this software for whatever you  want, in parts or
      full form, without having to pay us. (`royalty-free' usage)

    o You may not pretend that  you wrote this software.  If you use
      it, or  only parts of it,  in a program,  you must acknowledge
      somewhere  in  your  documentation  that  you  have  used  the
      Catharon Code. (`credits')

  We  specifically  permit  and  encourage  the  inclusion  of  this
  software, with  or without modifications,  in commercial products.
  We disclaim  all warranties  covering the packages  distributed by
  Catharon  Productions, Inc.  and  assume no  liability related  to
  their use.


Legal Terms
===========

0. Definitions
--------------

  Throughout this license,  the terms `Catharon Package', `package',
  and  `Catharon  Code'  refer   to  the  set  of  files  originally
  distributed by Catharon Productions, Inc.

  `You' refers to  the licensee, or person using  the project, where
  `using' is a generic term including compiling the project's source
  code as  well as linking it  to form a  `program' or `executable'.
  This  program  is referred  to  as `a  program  using  one of  the
  Catharon Packages'.

  This  license applies  to all  files distributed  in  the original
  Catharon  Package(s),  including  all  source code,  binaries  and
  documentation,  unless  otherwise  stated   in  the  file  in  its
  original, unmodified form as  distributed in the original archive.
  If you are  unsure whether or not a particular  file is covered by
  this license, you must contact us to verify this.

  The  Catharon   Packages  are  copyright  (C)   2000  by  Catharon
  Productions, Inc.  All rights reserved except as specified below.

1. No Warranty
--------------

  THE CATHARON PACKAGES ARE PROVIDED `AS IS' WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
  KIND, EITHER  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,  INCLUDING, BUT NOT  LIMITED TO,
  WARRANTIES  OF  MERCHANTABILITY   AND  FITNESS  FOR  A  PARTICULAR
  PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT WILL ANY OF THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
  BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES CAUSED BY THE USE OF OR THE INABILITY TO
  USE THE CATHARON PACKAGE.

2. Redistribution
-----------------

  This  license  grants  a  worldwide, royalty-free,  perpetual  and
  irrevocable right  and license to use,  execute, perform, compile,
  display,  copy,   create  derivative  works   of,  distribute  and
  sublicense the  Catharon Packages (in both source  and object code
  forms)  and  derivative works  thereof  for  any  purpose; and  to
  authorize others  to exercise  some or all  of the  rights granted
  herein, subject to the following conditions:

    o Redistribution  of source code  must retain this  license file
      (`license.txt') unaltered; any additions, deletions or changes
      to   the  original   files  must   be  clearly   indicated  in
      accompanying  documentation.   The  copyright notices  of  the
      unaltered, original  files must be preserved in  all copies of
      source files.

    o Redistribution  in binary form must provide  a disclaimer that
      states  that the  software is  based in  part on  the  work of
      Catharon Productions, Inc. in the distribution documentation.

  These conditions  apply to any  software derived from or  based on
  the Catharon Packages, not just  the unmodified files.  If you use
  our work, you  must acknowledge us.  However, no  fee need be paid
  to us.

3. Advertising
--------------

  Neither Catharon Productions, Inc.  and contributors nor you shall
  use  the  name  of  the  other  for  commercial,  advertising,  or
  promotional purposes without specific prior written permission.

  We suggest, but do not  require, that you use the following phrase
  to refer to this software in your documentation: 'this software is
  based in part on the Catharon Typography Project'.

  As  you have  not signed  this license,  you are  not  required to
  accept  it.  However,  as  the Catharon  Packages are  copyrighted
  material, only  this license, or  another one contracted  with the
  authors, grants you  the right to use, distribute,  and modify it.
  Therefore,  by  using,  distributing,  or modifying  the  Catharon
  Packages,  you indicate  that you  understand and  accept  all the
  terms of this license.
