Copyright and Licensing Information for ACE(TM), TAO(TM), CIAO(TM), DAnCE(TM),
and CoSMIC(TM)

ACE(TM), TAO(TM), CIAO(TM), DAnCE>(TM), and CoSMIC(TM) (henceforth referred
to as "DOC software") are copyrighted by Douglas C. Schmidt and his research
group at Washington University, University of California, Irvine, and Vanderbilt
University, Copyright (c) 1993-2009, all rights reserved. Since DOC software
is open-source, freely available software, you are free to use, modify, copy,
and distribute--perpetually and irrevocably--the DOC software source code
and object code produced from the source, as well as copy and distribute modified
versions of this software. You must, however, include this copyright statement
along with any code built using DOC software that you release. No copyright
statement needs to be provided if you just ship binary executables of your
software products.

You can use DOC software in commercial and/or binary software releases and
are under no obligation to redistribute any of your source code that is built
using DOC software. Note, however, that you may not misappropriate the DOC
software code, such as copyrighting it yourself or claiming authorship of
the DOC software code, in a way that will prevent DOC software from being
distributed freely using an open-source development model. You needn't inform
anyone that you're using DOC software in your software, though we encourage
you to let us know so we can promote your project in the DOC software success
stories.

The ACE, TAO, CIAO, DAnCE, and CoSMIC web sites are maintained by the DOC
Group at the Institute for Software Integrated Systems (ISIS) and the Center
for Distributed Object Computing of Washington University, St. Louis for the
development of open-source software as part of the open-source software community.
Submissions are provided by the submitter ``as is'' with no warranties whatsoever,
including any warranty of merchantability, noninfringement of third party
intellectual property, or fitness for any particular purpose. In no event
shall the submitter be liable for any direct, indirect, special, exemplary,
punitive, or consequential damages, including without limitation, lost profits,
even if advised of the possibility of such damages. Likewise, DOC software
is provided as is with no warranties of any kind, including the warranties
of design, merchantability, and fitness for a particular purpose, noninfringement,
or arising from a course of dealing, usage or trade practice. Washington University,
UC Irvine, Vanderbilt University, their employees, and students shall have
no liability with respect to the infringement of copyrights, trade secrets
or any patents by DOC software or any part thereof. Moreover, in no event
will Washington University, UC Irvine, or Vanderbilt University, their employees,
or students be liable for any lost revenue or profits or other special, indirect
and consequential damages.

DOC software is provided with no support and without any obligation on the
part of Washington University, UC Irvine, Vanderbilt University, their employees,
or students to assist in its use, correction, modification, or enhancement.
A number of companies around the world provide commercial support for DOC
software, however. DOC software is Y2K-compliant, as long as the underlying
OS platform is Y2K-compliant. Likewise, DOC software is compliant with the
new US daylight savings rule passed by Congress as "The Energy Policy Act
of 2005," which established new daylight savings times (DST) rules for the
United States that expand DST as of March 2007. Since DOC software obtains
time/date and calendaring information from operating systems users will not
be affected by the new DST rules as long as they upgrade their operating systems
accordingly.

The names ACE(TM), TAO(TM), CIAO(TM), DAnCE(TM), CoSMIC(TM), Washington University,
UC Irvine, and Vanderbilt University, may not be used to endorse or promote
products or services derived from this source without express written permission
from Washington University, UC Irvine, or Vanderbilt University. This license
grants no permission to call products or services derived from this source
ACE(TM), TAO(TM), CIAO(TM), DAnCE(TM), or CoSMIC(TM), nor does it grant permission
for the name Washington University, UC Irvine, or Vanderbilt University to
appear in their names.

If you have any suggestions, additions, comments, or questions, please let
me know.

Douglas C. Schmidt
