MOTOSOTO OPEN SOURCE LICENSE - Version 0.9.1

This Motosoto Open Source License (the "License") applies to "Community Portal Server" and related 
software products as well as any updatesor maintenance releases of that software ("Motosoto 
Products") that are distributed by Motosoto.Com B.V. ("Licensor"). Any Motosoto Product licensed 
pursuant to this License is a "Licensed Product." Licensed Product, in its entirety, is protected 
by Dutch copyright law. This License identifies the terms under which you may use, copy, distribute 
or modify Licensed Product and has been submitted to the Open Software Initiative (OSI) for 
approval.

Preamble

This Preamble is intended to describe, in plain English, the nature and scope of this License. 
However, this Preamble is not a part of this license. The legal effect of this License is dependent 
only upon the terms of the License and not this Preamble. This License complies with the Open 
Source Definition and has been approved by Open Source Initiative. Software distributed under this 
License may be marked as "OSI Certified Open Source Software."

This License provides that:

1. You may use, sell or give away the Licensed Product, alone or as a component of an aggregate 
software distribution containing programs from several different sources. No royalty or other fee 
is required.

2. Both Source Code and executable versions of the Licensed Product, including Modifications made 
by previous Contributors, are available for your use. (The terms "Licensed Product," 
"Modifications," "Contributors" and "Source Code" are defined in the License.)

3. You are allowed to make Modifications to the Licensed Product, and you can create Derivative 
Works from it. (The term "Derivative Works" is defined in the License.)

4. By accepting the Licensed Product under the provisions of this License, you agree that any 
Modifications you make to the Licensed Product and then distribute are governed by the provisions 
of this License. In particular, you must make the Source Code of your Modifications available to 
others.

5. You may use the Licensed Product for any purpose, but the Licensor is not providing you any 
warranty whatsoever, nor is the Licensor accepting any liability in the event that the Licensed 
Product doesn't work properly or causes you any injury or damages.

6. If you sublicense the Licensed Product or Derivative Works, you may charge fees for warranty or 
support, or for accepting indemnity or liability obligations to your customers. You cannot charge 
for the Source Code.

7. If you assert any patent claims against the Licensor relating to the Licensed Product, or if you 
breach any terms of the License, your rights to the Licensed Product under this License 
automatically terminate.

You may use this License to distribute your own Derivative Works, in which case the provisions of 
this License will apply to your Derivative Works just as they do to the original Licensed Product.

Alternatively, you may distribute your Derivative Works under any other OSI-approved Open Source 
license, or under a proprietary license of your choice. If you use any license other than this 
License, however, you must continue to fulfill the requirements of this License (including the 
provisions relating to publishing the Source Code) for those portions of your Derivative Works that 
consist of the Licensed Product, including the files containing Modifications.

New versions of this License may be published from time to time. You may choose to continue to use 
the license terms in this version of the License or those from the new version. However, only the 
Licensor has the right to change the License terms as they apply to the Licensed Product. This 
License relies on precise definitions for certain terms. Those terms are defined when they are 
first used, and the definitions are repeated for your convenience in a Glossary at the end of the 
License.

License Terms

1. Grant of License From Licensor.

Licensor hereby grants you a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to third 
party intellectual property claims, to do the following:

     a. Use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute Licensed Product or 
portions thereof (including Modifications as hereinafter defined), in both Source Code or as an 
executable program. "Source Code" means the preferred form for making modifications to the Licensed 
Product, including all modules contained therein, plus any associated interface definition files, 
scripts used to control compilation and installation of an executable program, or a list of 
differential comparisons against the Source Code of the Licensed Product.

     b. Create Derivative Works (as that term is defined under Dutch copyright law) of Licensed 
Product by adding to or deleting from the substance or structure of said Licensed Product.

     c. Under claims of patents now or hereafter owned or controlled by Licensor, to make, use, 
sell, offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of Licensed Product or portions thereof, 
but solely to the extent that any such claim is necessary to enable you to make, use, sell, offer 
for sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of Licensed Product or portions thereof or Derivative 
Works thereof.

2. Grant of License to Modifications From Contributor.

"Modifications" means any additions to or deletions from the substance or structure of (i) a file 
containing Licensed Product, or (ii) any new file that contains any part of Licensed Product. 
Hereinafter in this License, the term "Licensed Product" shall include all previous Modifications 
that you receive from any Contributor. By application of the provisions in Section 4(a) below, each 
person or entity who created or contributed to the creation of, and distributed, a Modification (a 
"Contributor") hereby grants you a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to 
third party intellectual property claims, to do the following:

     a. Use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute any Modifications 
created by such Contributor or portions thereof, in both Source Code or as an executable program, 
either on an unmodified basis or as part of Derivative Works.

     b. Under claims of patents now or hereafter owned or controlled by Contributor, to make, use, 
sell, offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of Modifications or portions thereof, but 
solely to the extent that any such claim is necessary to enable you to make, use, sell, offer for 
sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of Modifications or portions thereof or Derivative Works 
thereof.

3. Exclusions From License Grant.

Nothing in this License shall be deemed to grant any rights to trademarks, copyrights, patents, 
trade secrets or any other intellectual property of Licensor or any Contributor except as expressly 
stated herein. No patent license is granted separate from the Licensed Product, for code that you 
delete from the Licensed Product, or for combinations of the Licensed Product with other software 
or hardware. No right is granted to the trademarks of Licensor or any Contributor even if such 
marks are included in the Licensed Product. Nothing in this License shall be interpreted to 
prohibit Licensor from licensing under different terms from this License any code that Licensor 
otherwise would have a right to license.

4. Your Obligations Regarding Distribution.

     a. Application of This License to Your Modifications. As an express condition for your use of 
the Licensed Product, you hereby agree that any Modifications that you create or to which you 
contribute, and which you distribute, are governed by the terms of this License including, without 
limitation, Section 2. Any Modifications that you create or to which you contribute may be 
distributed only under the terms of this License or a future version of this License released under 
Section 7. You must include a copy of this License with every copy of the Modifications you 
distribute. You agree not to offer or impose any terms on any Source Code or executable version of 
the Licensed Product or Modifications that alter or restrict the applicable version of this License 
or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, you may include an additional document offering the 
additional rights described in Section 4(e).

     b. Availability of Source Code. You must make available, under the terms of this License, the 
Source Code of the Licensed Product and any Modifications that you distribute, either on the same 
media as you distribute any executable or other form of the Licensed Product, or via a mechanism 
generally accepted in the software development community for the electronic transfer of data (an 
"Electronic Distribution Mechanism"). The Source Code for any version of Licensed Product or 
Modifications that you distribute must remain available for at least twelve (12) months after the 
date it initially became available, or at least six (6) months after a subsequent version of said 
Licensed Product or Modifications has been made available. You are responsible for ensuring that 
the Source Code version remains available even if the Electronic Distribution Mechanism is 
maintained by a third party.

     c. Description of Modifications. You must cause any Modifications that you create or to which 
you contribute, and which you distribute, to contain a file documenting the additions, changes or 
deletions you made to create or contribute to those Modifications, and the dates of any such 
additions, changes or deletions. You must include a prominent statement that the Modifications are 
derived, directly or indirectly, from the Licensed Product and include the names of the Licensor 
and any Contributor to the Licensed Product in (i) the Source Code and (ii) in any notice displayed 
by a version of the Licensed Product you distribute or in related documentation in which you 
describe the origin or ownership of the Licensed Product. You may not modify or delete any 
preexisting copyright notices in the Licensed Product.

     d. Intellectual Property Matters.
          i. Third Party Claims. If you have knowledge that a license to a third party's 
intellectual property right is required to exercise the rights granted by this License, you must 
include a text file with the Source Code distribution titled "LEGAL" that describes the claim and 
the party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will know whom to contact. If you 
obtain such knowledge after you make any Modifications available as described in Section 4(b), you 
shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies you make available thereafter and shall take 
other steps (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups) reasonably calculated to 
inform those who received the Licensed Product from you that new knowledge has been obtained.

          ii. Contributor APIs. If your Modifications include an application programming interface 
("API") and you have knowledge of patent licenses that are reasonably necessary to implement that 
API, you must also include this information in the LEGAL file.

          iii. Representations. You represent that, except as disclosed pursuant to 4(d)(i) above, 
you believe that any Modifications you distribute are your original creations and that you have 
sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.

     e. Required Notices. You must duplicate this License in any documentation you provide along 
with the Source Code of any Modifications you create or to which you contribute, and which you 
distribute, wherever you describe recipients' rights relating to Licensed Product. You must 
duplicate the notice contained in Exhibit A (the "Notice") in each file of the Source Code of any 
copy you distribute of the Licensed Product. If you created a Modification, you may add your name 
as a Contributor to the Notice. If it is not possible to put the Notice in a particular Source Code 
file due to its structure, then you must include such Notice in a location (such as a relevant 
directory file) where a user would be likely to look for such a notice. You may choose to offer, 
and charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations to one or more 
recipients of Licensed Product. However, you may do so only on your own behalf, and not on behalf 
of the Licensor or any Contributor. You must make it clear that any such warranty, support, 
indemnity or liability obligation is offered by you alone, and you hereby agree to indemnify the 
Licensor and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the Licensor or such Contributor as a 
result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms you offer.

     f. Distribution of Executable Versions. You may distribute Licensed Product as an executable 
program under a license of your choice that may contain terms different from this License provided 
(i) you have satisfied the requirements of Sections 4(a) through 4(e) for that distribution, (ii) 
you include a conspicuous notice in the executable version, related documentation and collateral 
materials stating that the Source Code version of the Licensed Product is available under the terms 
of this License, including a description of how and where you have fulfilled the obligations of 
Section 4(b), (iii) you retain all existing copyright notices in the Licensed Product, and (iv) you 
make it clear that any terms that differ from this License are offered by you alone, not by 
Licensor or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the Licensor and every Contributor for 
any liability incurred by Licensor or such Contributor as a result of any terms you offer.

     g. Distribution of Derivative Works. You may create Derivative Works (e.g., combinations of 
some or all of the Licensed Product with other code) and distribute the Derivative Works as 
products under any other license you select, with the proviso that the requirements of this License 
are fulfilled for those portions of the Derivative Works that consist of the Licensed Product or 
any Modifications thereto.

5. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.

If it is impossible for you to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or 
all of the Licensed Product due to statute, judicial order, or regulation, then you must (i) comply 
with the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible, (ii) cite the statute or regulation 
that prohibits you from adhering to the License, and (iii) describe the limitations and the code 
they affect. Such description must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section 4(d), and 
must be included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to the extent prohibited by 
statute or regulation, such description must be sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary 
skill at computer programming to be able to understand it.

6. Application of This License.

This License applies to code to which Licensor or Contributor has attached the Notice in Exhibit A, 
which is incorporated herein by this reference.

7. Versions of This License.

     a. Version. The Motosoto Open Source License is derived from the Jabber Open Source License. 
All changes are related to applicable law and the location of court.

     b. New Versions. Licensor may publish from time to time revised and/or new versions of the 
License.

     c. Effect of New Versions. Once Licensed Product has been published under a particular version 
of the License, you may always continue to use it under the terms of that version. You may also 
choose to use such Licensed Product under the terms of any subsequent version of the License 
published by Licensor. No one other than Lic ensor has the right to modify the terms applicable to 
Licensed Product created under this License.

     d. Derivative Works of this License. If you create or use a modified version of this License, 
which you may do only in order to apply it to software that is not already a Licensed Product under 
this License, you must rename your license so that it is not confusingly similar to this License, 
and must make it clear that your license contains terms that differ from this License. In so naming 
your license, you may not use any trademark of Licensor or any Contributor.

8. Disclaimer of Warranty.

LICENSED PRODUCT IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE LICENSED PRODUCT IS 
FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS 
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE LICENSED PRODUCT IS WITH YOU. SHOULD LICENSED PRODUCT PROVE 
DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (AND NOT THE LICENSOR OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF 
ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL 
PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF LICENSED PRODUCT IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS 
DISCLAIMER.

9. Termination.

     a. Automatic Termination Upon Breach. This license and the rights granted hereunder will 
terminate automatically if you fail to comply with the terms herein and fail to cure such breach 
within thirty (30) days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses to the Licensed Product 
that are properly granted shall survive any termination of this license. Provisions that, by their 
nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License, shall survive.

     b. Termination Upon Assertion of Patent Infringement. If you initiate litigation by asserting 
a patent infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment actions) against Licensor or a 
Contributor (Licensor or Contributor against whom you file such an action is referred to herein as 
"Respondent") alleging that Licensed Product directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any 
and all rights granted by such Respondent to you under Sections 1 or 2 of this License shall 
terminate prospectively upon sixty (60) days notice from Respondent (the "Notice Period") unless 
within that Notice Period you either agree in writing (i) to pay Respondent a mutually agreeable 
reasonably royalty for your past or future use of Licensed Product made by such Respondent, or (ii) 
withdraw your litigation claim with respect to Licensed Product against such Respondent. If within 
said Notice Period a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not mutually agreed upon in 
writing by the parties or the litigation claim is not withdrawn, the rights granted by Licensor to 
you under Sections 1 and 2 automatically terminate at the expiration of said Notice Period.

     c. Reasonable Value of This License. If you assert a patent infringement claim against 
Respondent alleging that Licensed Product directly or indirectly infringes any patent where such 
claim is resolved (such as by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent infringement 
litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses granted by said Respondent under Sections 1 
and 2 shall be taken into account in determining the amount or value of any payment or license.

     d. No Retroactive Effect of Termination. In the event of termination under Sections 9(a) or 
9(b) above, all end user license agreements (excluding licenses to distributors and reselle rs) 
that have been validly granted by you or any distributor hereunder prior to termination shall 
survive termination.

10. Limitation of Liability.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR 
OTHERWISE, SHALL THE LICENSOR, ANY CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF LICENSED PRODUCT, OR ANY 
SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, 
WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, 
EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF 
LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY's
NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE 
EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY 
NOT APPLY TO YOU.

11. Responsibility for Claims. 
    
As between Licensor and Contributors, each party is responsible for claims and damages arising, 
directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights under this License. You agree to work with 
Licensor and Contributors to distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is 
intended or shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.

12. U.S. Government End Users. 

The Licensed Product is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), 
consisting of "commercial computer software" and "commercial computer software documentation," 
as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 
48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users acquire 
Licensed Product with only those rights set forth herein.

13. Miscellaneous. 
This License represents the complete agreement concerning the subject matter hereof. If any 
provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only 
to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by Dutch law 
provisions. The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International 
Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. You and Licensor expressly waive any rights to a jury trial 
in any litigation concerning Licensed Product or this License. Any law or regulation that provides 
that the language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this License.

14. Definition of "You" in This License. 
"You" throughout this License, whether in upper or lower case, means an individual or a legal entity 
exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License or a future version of 
this License issued under Section 7. For legal entities, "you" includes any entity that controls, is 
controlled by, or is under common control with you. For purposes of this definition, "control" means 
(i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by 
contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, 
or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

15. Glossary.
All defined terms in this License that are used in more than one Section of this License are 
repeated here, in alphabetical order, for the convenience of the reader. The Section of this 
License in which each defined term is first used is shown in parentheses. 

Contributor: Each person or entity who created or contributed to the creation of, and distributed, a Modification. (See Section 2)

Derivative Works: That term as used in this License is defined under Dutch copyright law. (See Section 1(b))

License: This Motosoto Open Source License. (See first paragraph of License)

Licensed Product: Any Motosoto Product licensed pursuant to this License. The term
"Licensed Product" includes all previous Modifications from any Contributor that you receive. 
(See first paragraph of License and Section 2)

Licensor: Motosoto.Com B.V.. (See first paragraph of License)

Modifications: Any additions to or deletions from the substance or structure of (i) a file 
containing Licensed Product, or (ii) any new file that contains any part of Licensed Product. (See Section 2)

Notice: The notice contained in Exhibit A. (See Section 4(e))

Source Code: The preferred form for making modifications to the Licensed Product, including 
all modules contained therein, plus any associated interface definition files, scripts used 
to control compilation and installation of an executable program, or a list of differential 
comparisons against the Source Code of the Licensed Product. (See Section 1(a))

You: This term is defined in Section 14 of this License.
 
EXHIBIT A
The Notice below must appear in each file of the Source Code of any copy you distribute of the Licensed Product or any Modifications thereto. Contributors to any Modifications may add their own copyright notices to identify their own contributions.

License:
The contents of this file are subject to the Motosoto Open Source License Version 0.9 (the "License"). You may not copy or use this file, in either source code or executable form, except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.motosoto.com/license/ or at http://www.opensource.org/.

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.

Copyrights:
Portions created by or assigned to Motosoto.com B.V. are Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Motosoto.com B.V.
All Rights Reserved. Contact information for Motosoto.com B.V. is available at http://www.motosoto.com/.

Acknowledgements
Special thanks to the Motosoto Open Source Contributors for their suggestions and support of Motosoto.

Modifications:
