Multics License Historical Background

This edition of the Multics software materials and documentation is provided
and donated to Massachusetts Institute of Technology by Group BULL including
BULL HN Information Systems Inc. as a contribution to computer science knowledge.
This donation is made also to give evidence of the common contributions of
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Bell Laboratories, General Electric,
Honeywell Information Systems Inc., Honeywell BULL Inc., Groupe BULL and BULL
HN Information Systems Inc. to the development of this operating system. Multics
development was initiated by Massachusetts Institute of Technology Project
MAC (1963-1970), renamed the MIT Laboratory for Computer Science and Artificial
Intelligence in the mid 1970s, under the leadership of Professor Fernando
Jose Corbato. Users consider that Multics provided the best software architecture
for managing computer hardware properly and for executing programs. Many subsequent
operating systems incorporated Multics principles. Multics was distributed
in 1975 to 2000 by Group Bull in Europe, and in the U.S. by Bull HN Information
Systems Inc., as successor in interest by change in name only to Honeywell
Bull Inc. and Honeywell Information Systems Inc. . -----------------------------------------------------------

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute these programs and their documentation
for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the below
copyright notice and historical background appear in all copies and that both
the copyright notice and historical background and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation, and that the names of MIT, HIS, BULL or
BULL HN not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
of the programs without specific prior written permission.

Copyright 1972 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Honeywell Information
Systems Inc.

Copyright 2006 by BULL HN Information Systems Inc.

Copyright 2006 by Bull SAS All Rights Reserved
