Nokia Open Source License (NOKOS License)

Version 1.0a 1. DEFINITIONS.

"Affiliates" of a party shall mean an entity

   a) which is directly or indirectly controlling such party;

b) which is under the same direct or indirect ownership or control as such
party; or

   c) which is directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such party.

For these purposes, an entity shall be treated as being controlled by another
if that other entity has fifty percent (50%) or more of the votes in such
entity, is able to direct its affairs and/or to control the composition of
its board of directors or equivalent body.

"Commercial Use" shall mean distribution or otherwise making the Covered Software
available to a third party.

"Contributor" shall mean each entity that creates or contributes to the creation
of Modifications.

"Contributor Version" shall mean in case of any Contributor the combination
of the Original Software, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the
Modifications made by that particular Contributor and in case of Nokia in
addition the Original Software in any form, including the form as Exceutable.

"Covered Software" shall mean the Original Software or Modifications or the
combination of the Original Software and Modifications, in each case including
portions thereof.

"Electronic Distribution Mechanism" shall mean a mechanism generally accepted
in the software development community for the electronic transfer of data.

"Executable" shall mean Covered Software in any form other than Source Code.

"Nokia" shall mean Nokia Corporation and its Affiliates.

"Larger Work" shall mean a work, which combines Covered Software or portions
thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

"License" shall mean this document.

"Licensable" shall mean having the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible,
whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any and
all of the rights conveyed herein.

"Modifications" shall mean any addition to or deletion from the substance
or structure of either the Original Software or any previous Modifications.
When Covered Software is released as a series of files, a Modification is:

a) Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containing Original
Software or previous Modifications.

b) Any new file that contains any part of the Original Software or previous
Modifications.

"Original Software" shall mean the Source Code of computer software code which
is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as Original Software,
and which, at the time of its release under this License is not already Covered
Software governed by this License.

"Patent Claims" shall mean any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter acquired,
including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in any
patent Licensable by grantor.

"Source Code" shall mean the preferred form of the Covered Software for making
modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, scripts used to control compilation and installation
of an Executable, or source code differential comparisons against either the
Original Software or another well known, available Covered Software of the
Contributor's choice. The Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form,
provided the appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely
available for no charge.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or a legal entity exercising rights
under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License or a future version
of this License issued under Section 6.1. For legal entities, "You" includes
Affiliates of such entity. 2. SOURCE CODE LICENSE.

   2.1 Nokia Grant.

Subject to the terms of this License, Nokia hereby grants You a world-wide,
royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property
claims:

a) under copyrights Licensable by Nokia to use, reproduce, modify, display,
perform, sublicense and distribute the Original Software (or portions thereof)
with or without Modifications, and/or as part of a Larger Work;

b) and under Patents Claims necessarily infringed by the making, using or
selling of Original Software, to make, have made, use, practice, sell, and
offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the Original Software (or portions
thereof).

c) The licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the
date Nokia first distributes Original Software under the terms of this License.

d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted: 1)
for code that You delete from the Original Software; 2) separate from the
Original Software; or 3) for infringements caused by: i) the modification
of the Original Software or ii) the combination of the Original Software with
other software or devices.

   2.2 Contributor Grant.

Subject to the terms of this License and subject to third party intellectual
property claims, each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
non-exclusive license

a) under copyrights Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify,
display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications created by such
Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an unmodified basis, with other
Modifications, as Covered Software and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

b) under Patent Claims necessarily infringed by the making, using, or selling
of Modifications made by that Contributor either alone and/or in combination
with its Contributor Version (or portions of such combination), to make, use,
sell, offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications
made by that Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the combination of
Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor Version (or portions
of such combination).

c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effective on the
date Contributor first makes Commercial Use of the Covered Software.

d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is granted: 1)
for any code that Contributor has deleted from the Contributor Version; 2)
separate from the Contributor Version; 3) for infringements caused by: i)
third party modifications of Contributor Version or ii) the combination of
Modifications made by that Contributor with other software (except as part
of the Contributor Version) or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims infringed
by Covered Software in the absence of Modifications made by that Contributor.
3. DISTRIBUTION OBLIGATIONS.

   3.1 Application of License.

The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are governed
by the terms of this License, including without limitation Section 2.2. The
Source Code version of Covered Software may be distributed only under the
terms of this License or a future version of this License released under Section
6.1, and You must include a copy of this License with every copy of the Source
Code You distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any Source Code
version that alters or restricts the applicable version of this License or
the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may include an additional document
offering the additional rights described in Section 3.5.

   3.2 Availability of Source Code.

Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must be made
available in Source Code form under the terms of this License either on the
same media as an Executable version or via an accepted Electronic Distribution
Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an Executable version available; and
if made available via Electronic Distribution Mechanism, must remain available
for at least twelve (12) months after the date it initially became available,
or at least six (6) months after a subsequent version of that particular Modification
has been made available to such recipients. You are responsible for ensuring
that the Source Code version remains available even if the Electronic Distribution
Mechanism is maintained by a third party.

   3.3 Description of Modifications.

You must cause all Covered Software to which You contribute to contain a file
documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Software and the date
of any change. You must include a prominent statement that the Modification
is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original Software provided by Nokia
and including the name of Nokia in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice
in an Executable version or related documentation in which You describe the
origin or ownership of the Covered Software.

   3.4 Intellectual Property Matters

(a) Third Party Claims. If Contributor has knowledge that a license under
a third party's intellectual property rights is required to exercise the rights
granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2, Contributor must include
a text file with the Source Code distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes
the claim and the party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient
will know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains such knowledge after the
Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2, Contributor shall
promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies Contributor makes available thereafter
and shall take other steps (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or
newsgroups) reasonably calculated to inform those who received the Covered
Software that new knowledge has been obtained.

(b) Contributor APIs. If Contributor's Modifications include an application
programming interface and Contributor has knowledge of patent licenses which
are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Contributor must also include
this information in the LEGAL file.

(c) Representations. Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant
to Section 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes that Contributor's Modifications
are Contributor's original creation(s) and/or Contributor has sufficient rights
to grant the rights conveyed by this License.

   3.5 Required Notices.

You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source Code.
If it is not possible to put such notice in a particular Source Code file
due to its structure, then You must include such notice in a location (such
as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely to look for such a notice.
If You created one or more Modification(s) You may add your name as a Contributor
to the notice described in Exhibit A. You must also duplicate this License
in any documentation for the Source Code where You describe recipients' rights
or ownership rights relating to Covered Software. You may choose to offer,
and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations
to one or more recipients of Covered Software. However, You may do so only
on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of Nokia or any Contributor. You must
make it absolutely clear that any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability
obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify Nokia
and every Contributor for any liability incurred by Nokia or such Contributor
as a result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.

   3.6 Distribution of Executable Versions.

You may distribute Covered Software in Executable form only if the requirements
of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Software, and if You include
a notice stating that the Source Code version of the Covered Software is available
under the terms of this License, including a description of how and where
You have fulfilled the obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously
included in any notice in an Executable version, related documentation or
collateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the Covered
Software. You may distribute the Executable version of Covered Software or
ownership rights under a license of Your choice, which may contain terms different
from this License, provided that You are in compliance with the terms of this
License and that the license for the Executable version does not attempt to
limit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code version from the
rights set forth in this License. If You distribute the Executable version
under a different license You must make it absolutely clear that any terms
which differ from this License are offered by You alone, not by Nokia or any
Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify Nokia and every Contributor for
any liability incurred by Nokia or such Contributor as a result of any such
terms You offer.

   3.7 Larger Works.

You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Software with other software
not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger Work as
a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the requirements of this
License are fulfilled for the Covered Software. 4. INABILITY TO COMPLY DUE
TO STATUTE OR REGULATION.

If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License
with respect to some or all of the Covered Software due to statute, judicial
order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with the terms of this License
to the maximum extent possible; and (b) describe the limitations and the code
they affect. Such description must be included in the LEGAL file described
in Section 3.4 and must be included with all distributions of the Source Code.

Except to the extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description
must be sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able
to understand it. 5. APPLICATION OF THIS LICENSE.

This License applies to code to which Nokia has attached the notice in Exhibit
A and to related Covered Software. 6. VERSIONS OF THE LICENSE.

   6.1 New Versions.

Nokia may publish revised and/or new versions of the License from time to
time. Each version will be given a distinguishing version number.

   6.2 Effect of New Versions.

Once Covered Software has been published under a particular version of the
License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that version.
You may also choose to use such Covered Software under the terms of any subsequent
version of the License published by Nokia. No one other than Nokia has the
right to modify the terms applicable to Covered Software created under this
License. 7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

COVERED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION,
WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY
AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED SOFTWARE
PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT NOKIA, ITS LICENSORS OR AFFILIATES
OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR
OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF
THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT
UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER. 8. TERMINATION.

8.1 This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically
if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure such breach within
30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses to the Covered Software
which are properly granted shall survive any termination of this License.
Provisions which, by their nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination
of this License shall survive.

8.2 If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement claim (excluding
declatory judgment actions) against Nokia or a Contributor (Nokia or Contributor
against whom You file such action is referred to as "Participant") alleging
that:

a) such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly infringes
any patent, then any and all rights granted by such Participant to You under
Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant
terminate prospectively, unless if within 60 days after receipt of notice
You either: (i) agree in writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable
royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made by such Participant,
or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to the Contributor Version
against such Participant. If within 60 days of notice, a reasonable royalty
and payment arrangement are not mutually agreed upon in writing by the parties
or the litigation claim is not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant
to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration
of the 60 day notice period specified above.

b) any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's Contributor
Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any rights granted
to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b) and 2.2(b) are revoked effective
as of the date You first made, used, sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications
made by that Participant.

8.3 If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant alleging
that such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly infringes
any patent where such claim is resolved (such as by license or settlement)
prior to the initiation of patent infringement litigation, then the reasonable
value of the licenses granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2
shall be taken into account in determining the amount or value of any payment
or license.

8.4 In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above, all end user
license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers) which have been
validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder prior to termination shall
survive termination. 9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, NOKIA, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR,
OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED SOFTWARE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES,
BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF
GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER
COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT
APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S
NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS
DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
BUT MAY ALLOW LIABILITY TO BE LIMITED; IN SUCH CASES, A PARTY's, ITS EMPLOYEES,
LICENSORS OR AFFILIATES' LIABILITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO U.S. $50. Nothing contained
in this License shall prejudice the statutory rights of any party dealing
as a consumer. 10. MISCELLANEOUS.

This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter hereof.
All rights in the Covered Software not expressly granted under this License
are reserved. Nothing in this License shall grant You any rights to use any
of the trademarks of Nokia or any of its Affiliates, even if any of such trademarks
are included in any part of Covered Software and/or documentation to it.

This License is governed by the laws of Finland excluding its conflict-of-law
provisions. All disputes arising from or relating to this Agreement shall
be settled by a single arbitrator appointed by the Central Chamber of Commerce
of Finland. The arbitration procedure shall take place in Helsinki, Finland
in the English language. If any part of this Agreement is found void and unenforceable,
it will not affect the validity of the balance of the Agreement, which shall
remain valid and enforceable according to its terms. 11. RESPONSIBILITY FOR
CLAIMS.

As between Nokia and the Contributors, each party is responsible for claims
and damages arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights
under this License and You agree to work with Nokia and Contributors to distribute
such responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or shall
be deemed to constitute any admission of liability. EXHIBIT A

The contents of this file are subject to the NOKOS License Version 1.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for
the specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.

The Original Software is

______________________________________.

Copyright © <year> Nokia and others. All Rights Reserved.

Contributor(s): ______________________________________.
