Secure Messaging Protocol (SMP) Libraries [ACL, CML, SFL]

Distribution Rights

All source code for the SMP is being provided at no cost and with no financial
limitations regarding its use and distribution. Organizations can use the
SMP without paying any royalties or licensing fees. The SMP was originally
developed by the U.S. Government. BAE Systems is enhancing and supporting
the SMP under contract to the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government is furnishing
the SMP software at no cost to the vendor subject to the conditions of the
SMP Public License provided with the SMP software.

29 May 2002

Secure Messaging Protocol (SMP) Public License

The United States Government/Department of Defense/National Security Agency/Office
of Network Security (collectively "the U.S. Government") hereby grants permission
to any person obtaining a copy of the SMP source and object files (the "SMP
Software") and associated documentation files (the "SMP Documentation"), or
any portions thereof, to do the following, subject to the following license
conditions:

You may, free of charge and without additional permission from the U.S. Government,
use, copy, modify, sublicense and otherwise distribute the SMP Software or
components of the SMP Software, with or without modifications developed by
you and/or by others.

You may, free of charge and without additional permission from the U.S. Government,
distribute copies of the SMP Documentation, with or without modifications
developed by you and/or by others, at no charge or at a charge that covers
the cost of reproducing such copies, provided that this SMP Public License
is retained.

Furthermore, if you distribute the SMP Software or parts of the SMP Software,
with or without modifications developed by you and/or others, then you must
either make available the source code to all portions of the SMP Software
(exclusive of any modifications made by you and/or by others) upon request,
or instead you may notify anyone requesting the SMP Software source code that
it is freely available from the U.S. Government.

Transmission of this SMP Public License must accompany whatever portions of
the SMP Software you redistribute.

The SMP Software is provided without warranty or guarantee of any nature,
express or implied, including without limitation the warranties of merchantability
and fitness for a particular purpose.

The U.S. Government cannot be held liable for any damages either directly
or indirectly caused by the use of the SMP Software.

It is not permitted to copy, sublicense, distribute or transfer any of the
SMP Software except as expressly indicated herein. Any attempts to do otherwise
will be considered a violation of this License and your rights to the SMP
Software will be voided.

The SMP uses the Enhanced SNACC (eSNACC) Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1)
C++ Library to ASN.1 encode and decode security-related data objects. The
eSNACC ASN.1 C++ Library is covered by the ENHANCED SNACC SOFTWARE PUBLIC
LICENSE. None of the GNU public licenses apply to the eSNACC ASN.1 C++ Library.
The eSNACC Compiler is not distributed as part of the SMP.

Copyright © 1997-2002 National Security Agency
